The game I have created for the final project is called Pro Climber. The inspiration for this game came from my favorite mobile game, Geometry Dash. The way I think of Pro Climber is as a 3-Dimensional platformer game with unique obstacles built to frustrate the player.

Currently the game consists of three levels, each with increasing difficulty for the player. When the player dies, either by falling or being hit by one of the lethal obstacles, the player must start back from level 1 to try to reach the last level. This feature of returning to level 1 after every death was inspired by breakout, a game in which I would compete against my granfather when I was a kid. I find this aspect to add to the frustration of playing the game as the player must go through the easy obstacles every time they fall. This frustration is what adds to the difficulty of the game and also what makes the satisfaction of completing a full round amazing.

Pro Climber is played in the first person POV, where the character is controlled with the arrow keys (or WASD), the mouse, and the spacebar. Instructions for the game can be found in the home screen just before beggining the game. The goal is to maneuver through the obstacles in each level without falling or dying and reach the gold coin at the end of the course. This gold coin will take the player to the next level, until level 3, where completing the level will take the player to the "Congrats" screen.

Each obstacle is unique and required unique C# scripts for their functionality. The majority of platforms and some obstacles were built using ProBuilder while the rest of the obstacles were built using the standard Unity GameObjects. Some obstacles require no scripts at all, such as the thin path at the very end of level 1. Other obstacles, such as the rolling balls at the beginning of level 1, required little coding for their functionality. However, obstacles in level 2 and level 3 became more complex to build. The from the spinning walls and climbing wall in level 2 to the raining balls and spikes in level 3, each obstacle is unique and has their own complexities.

The game can be paused at any moment and returned to the home screen from there. Additionally, when the game is paused, in the homescreen, and in the game over scene, the player can quit the application simply by pressing escape. Although an instructions page is included in the homescreen, I attempted to incorporate some of the "learn by doing" mentality explained by the creators of portal. The first set of obstacles in level one train the user in basic maneuvers, jumping and avoiding obstacles. Then these skills are combined in levels 2 and 3 for the more complex obstacles such as the double falling large balls in level 2.

The assets that I downloaded were the fps controller, the materials used in the courses, and the gold coin (this was borroweed from the helicopter game in the course). However, all of the scripts of the obstacles were written by me.
